README.md, before:

[![Current version on ROS](https://img.shields.io/badge/ROS-Kinetic-blue.svg)](http://wiki.ros.org/kinetic)
![C++ Wrapper](https://img.shields.io/badge/C%2B%2B-100%25-brightgreen.svg)
![Python Wrapper](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-80%25-green.svg)

# SailBoatROS

C++ and Python code for [Plymouth's Autonomous Sailboat](http://165.227.238.42/). This contains the catkin workspace of the nodes for the sailboat. Every controllers subscribe to topics sent by the arduino and publish commands to it. It is comprised of classes in C++ and Python for easy integration.

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes.

### Prerequisites

- ROS Kinetic
- Raspberry Pi 3 connected to the Arduino with [Arduino Code Uploaded](https://github.com/Plymouth-Sailboat/SailBoatArduinoInterface)
- [Raspicam Node](https://github.com/UbiquityRobotics/raspicam_node)
- [Rosserial-Arduino Node](http://wiki.ros.org/rosserial_arduino)

### Dependencies

We use standard messages as much as possible and try to have as less dependencies as possible.

This repo expects to have a working ROS Kinetic machine. If not, install it from [ROS Kinetic](http://wiki.ros.org/kinetic/Installation). If you are on a raspberry pi 3 we suggest installing the [Ubuntu Mate image](https://downloads.ubiquityrobotics.com/) from Ubiquity.

#### ROS Dependencies
We use the message [gps_common/GPSFix](http://docs.ros.org/hydro/api/gps_common/html/msg/GPSFix.html) for our GPS, which you will need to install the dependency.
To communicate with the Arduino we use the `rosserial-arduino` [node](http://wiki.ros.org/rosserial_arduino). To install them, execute 
```
sudo apt-get install ros-kinetic-gps-common
sudo apt-get install ros-kinetic-rosserial-arduino
sudo apt-get install ros-kinetic-rosserial
```

Because we use the raspberry pi camera, you will need [Raspicam Node](https://github.com/UbiquityRobotics/raspicam_node). There are multiple raspicam_node out there, either version should work. While not all our controls use the camera, you will need this for the complete sailboat to work.

Those are the ROS dependencies used :

```
rospy roscpp std_msgs gps_common
```
#### Python Dependencies
For python controllers, the only dependencies used is [NumPy](http://www.numpy.org/), so you will need to add it to python dependencies. Don't forget to upgrade pip first :
```
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install numpy
```

### Installing

Clone the project and catkin_make in the workspace. Source the catkin workspace to have access to the nodes.

```
catkin_make
source devel/setup.bash
```

### Usage

You should now have access to the nodes of the sailboat :

```
rosrun sailrobot potential_field_node
```

Or you can run the prebuilt launch config file which will launch the communication with the arduino :

```
roslaunch sailrobot start.launch
```

or

```
roslaunch sailrobot start.launch usb_port:=<port>
```

if you know the port on which the arduino is connected.

## Authors

* **Ulysse VAUTIER** - *Initial work* - [UlysseVautier](https://github.com/UlysseVautier)
* **Jian WAN** - [Jian Wan](https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/staff/jian-wan)
* **Christophe Viel** - [Christophe Viel](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Christophe_Viel)

## License

This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0 - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details

## Acknowledgments

## Look at the Wiki!
If you want more information about the raspberry pi and the boat, please look at [the wiki](https://github.com/Plymouth-Sailboat/SailBoatROS/wiki)

Commit message:

detailed usage of rosserial_python

README.md, after:

[![Current version on ROS](https://img.shields.io/badge/ROS-Kinetic-blue.svg)](http://wiki.ros.org/kinetic)
![C++ Wrapper](https://img.shields.io/badge/C%2B%2B-100%25-brightgreen.svg)
![Python Wrapper](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-80%25-green.svg)

# SailBoatROS

C++ and Python code for [Plymouth's Autonomous Sailboat](http://165.227.238.42/). This contains the catkin workspace of the nodes for the sailboat. Every controllers subscribe to topics sent by the arduino and publish commands to it. It is comprised of classes in C++ and Python for easy integration.

## Getting Started

These instructions will get you a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes.

### Prerequisites

- ROS Kinetic
- Raspberry Pi 3 connected to the Arduino with [Arduino Code Uploaded](https://github.com/Plymouth-Sailboat/SailBoatArduinoInterface)
- [Raspicam Node](https://github.com/UbiquityRobotics/raspicam_node)
- [Rosserial-Arduino Node](http://wiki.ros.org/rosserial_arduino)

### Dependencies

We use standard messages as much as possible and try to have as less dependencies as possible.

This repo expects to have a working ROS Kinetic machine. If not, install it from [ROS Kinetic](http://wiki.ros.org/kinetic/Installation). If you are on a raspberry pi 3 we suggest installing the [Ubuntu Mate image](https://downloads.ubiquityrobotics.com/) from Ubiquity.

#### ROS Dependencies
We use the message [gps_common/GPSFix](http://docs.ros.org/hydro/api/gps_common/html/msg/GPSFix.html) for our GPS, which you will need to install the dependency.
To communicate with the Arduino we use the `rosserial-arduino` [node](http://wiki.ros.org/rosserial_arduino). To install them, execute 
```
sudo apt-get install ros-kinetic-gps-common
sudo apt-get install ros-kinetic-rosserial-arduino
sudo apt-get install ros-kinetic-rosserial
```

Because we use the raspberry pi camera, you will need [Raspicam Node](https://github.com/UbiquityRobotics/raspicam_node). There are multiple raspicam_node out there, either version should work. While not all our controls use the camera, you will need this for the complete sailboat to work.

Those are the ROS dependencies used :

```
rospy roscpp std_msgs gps_common
```
#### Python Dependencies
For python controllers, the only dependencies used is [NumPy](http://www.numpy.org/), so you will need to add it to python dependencies. Don't forget to upgrade pip first :
```
pip install --upgrade pip
pip install numpy
```

### Installing

Clone the project and catkin_make in the workspace. Source the catkin workspace to have access to the nodes.

```
catkin_make
source devel/setup.bash
```

### Usage

To launch the communication with the Arduino you have to launch the [rosserial_python](http://wiki.ros.org/rosserial_python) node with the proper USB device, /dev/ttyACM0 in our case :

```
rosrun rosserial_python serial_node.py /dev/ttyACM0
```

You can then launch any nodes of the sailboat e.g. :

```
rosrun sailrobot potential_field_node
```

Or you can run the prebuilt launch config file which will launch the communication with the arduino :

```
roslaunch sailrobot start.launch
```

or if you know the port on which the arduino is connected :

```
roslaunch sailrobot start.launch usb_port:=<port>
```

## Authors

* **Ulysse VAUTIER** - *Initial work* - [UlysseVautier](https://github.com/UlysseVautier)
* **Jian WAN** - [Jian Wan](https://www.plymouth.ac.uk/staff/jian-wan)
* **Christophe Viel** - [Christophe Viel](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Christophe_Viel)

## License

This project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.0 - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details

## Acknowledgments

## Look at the Wiki!
If you want more information about the raspberry pi and the boat, please look at [the wiki](https://github.com/Plymouth-Sailboat/SailBoatROS/wiki)
